[BIRDS SINGING]
[GRUNTS AND YAWNS]
[CHILDREN YELLING AND MUSIC
PLAYING]
[CHILDREN SINGING AND MUSIC
>> When you look today at this
kind of growing community,
in some ways, all of us are
basically abandoned or not
really a wanted person.
Everybody kind of give
up the hope on us.
But in this place,
you're welcome,
and you have an
opportunity to change.
And we will be with
you no matter what.
This is a community of
love and compassion.
We need to move forward
together-- supporting
each other, carrying each other.
And these little ones--
even the naughtiest ones--
are the most amazing seed
of compassion and love.
Someday, they will blossom.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[CHATTER]
Every single kid who are in
the Jhamtse Gatsal suffer lot.
Some, they lost
their both parents
when they're very young.
Some actually abandoned
by their parents,
and then some actually
sold by their parents.
These are all children
sort of uninvited guest
in this universe, in this world.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[CHATTER]
>> [NON-ENGLISH YELLING]
[CHILD BEGINS CRYING]
[CRYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHILDREN PLAYING]
>> Good night!
>> Good night.
[NON-ENGLISH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[SOUND OF INSECT BUZZING]
>> My most difficult job is
when and how to accept new kids.
When I say "yes", it
means equally saying I
will save this kid's life.
When I say "no", saying "no"
is equal to saying that,
no, I don't want
to save this boy.
Or I cannot save this child.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHATTERING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[CHATTER]
>> [YELLING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[BIRDS SINGING]
[ELECTRIC RAZOR BUZZING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> There are many kids like me
in this world that don't get
opportunity to
call someone "Dad".
And I don't remember using
that term in my life.
Even today at this
age, I feel I wish
I had a dad that I could
share things with him
and listen about his life.
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
[NON-ENGLISH WHISPERING]
[TASHI LAUGHS]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I had very bad
time in my village.
There was nobody who'd
want to take care of me.
My mom suicided.
She burned herself.
I don't know why.
I was very sad.
And I always think that my
mother will come back soon,
and I always waiting for her.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CHATTER]
[CHANTING]
>> Back in the village,
there was a boy.
He was 11 years old.
And for whatever reason,
last night actually, he
hanged himself.
I had a couple of
times, actually,
opportunity to
meet the young boy.
And I think a year ago that when
I went to visit their village,
that the grandmother encouraged
me to save his life--
if you could take that boy
to the community because
of some challenge in his family.
And I felt this
morning that my side,
little bit kind of failure.
The mistake I feel
that I made was not
able to see the
condition of his inside--
the mental condition of the
boy, what kind of stress
he's going through.
And he actually end
his life last night.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We have more than
1,000 requests so far
that we've received to
take kids into community--
if I able to say yes
to the one family,
and I'm saying no
to the ten families.
Some of the decision
that I make,
I think I have to deal
with the rest of my life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[CRYING]
[BELL RINGING]
[CHANTING]
[THE MONK SIGHS]
[SIGHS]
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
[CHATTER]
>> Ouch!
[GROWLS]
Ouch!
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[PANTING]
[BIRDS SINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Today's actually agenda is
that we are going to discuss
about the new session and how
many kids actually we can take.
We need to think of our
current situation, reality
of our community--
whether we are capable of
or whether we have
enough resources
to take any more kids.
>> All the things that we
believe in we're already
struggling to make those happen.
And the more kids we
take, the less attention
we can give to each other
and to the children.
You know, the reality
for us right now
is that it's hard to say yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I can't ignore the reality.
The current reality tells me
we cannot take any more kids.
I see there are so many
child like me in the village,
on the street.
Just for me, they're
like a young [INAUDIBLE],
struggling in their life--
nobody who wants them.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
My mother actually works for
the road construction company.
She got pregnant.
She was not married.
You know, without husband,
having children wasn't easy.
[CHATTER]
Being illegitimate
child, it was not easy--
for me and for her,
and for both of us.
[CHATTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[BIRDS SINGING]
[CHATTER]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
>> (SINGING)
F-R-I-E-N-D-- friend.
Friend.
>> Friend.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
[CHILDREN SINGING]
On a lot of them Harry
[LAUGHING]
[ALL LAUGHING]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
>> I cannot undo my life
and go back to my childhood
and to really live
my childhood fully.
But one thing that
now I know is that I
could help to give these
children their childhood
that I missed in my life.
When I see they are laughing,
screaming, and playing,
I feel I'm living my childhood.
I'm lucky that we
have 85 children now.
And I missed only one
childhood, but I got opportunity
to live 85 childhood.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND CHATTER]
I know when I look back
why I am alive today.
There's something really
special in my life happened.
[ALL LAUGHING]
Kids who are here now
found a safe home.
And now, they have
this opportunity
to dream about their future.
Thank you.
[NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[MUSIC PLAYING AND BIRDS
SINGING]